# TLS Configuration, 2018/08/03

To make HTTPs work I (Lizzie, <_@lizzie.io>) needed to do four things:

- Generate a certificate and store it as a "TLS secret" in Kubernetes.
- Create a static IP in Google cloud.
- Created a new Ingress in Kubernetes using the TLS secret and IP.
- Switch over DNS.

I created the certificate in with Comodo CA
(<https://www.comodoca.com/>). It's a two-year wildcard
certificate. It cost $229/year. Paul and I have the credentials for
our account on Comodo CA's website.

After putting in payment details it prompted us for a Certificate
Signing Request. I created the Certificate Signing Request by
creating the following configuration file:

```
[req]
req_extensions = v3_req
distinguished_name = req_distinguished_name
prompt=no

[req_distinguished_name]
C=US
ST=California
L=San Francisco
O=Dark Inc
CN=*.builtwithdark.com
[ v3_req ]

basicConstraints = CA:FALSE
keyUsage = nonRepudiation, digitalSignature, keyEncipherment
subjectAltName = @alt_names

[alt_names]
DNS.1 = builtwithdark.com
```

(The `subjectAltName` bit is important, since we want a wildcard cert
for `*.builtwithdark.com` that also works with `builtwithdark.com`.)

Then I actually created the Certificate Signing Request with `openssl req -new -sha256 -newkey rsa:2048 -nodes -keyout builtwithdark.com.key -out builtwithdark.com.csr -config builtwithdark.com.cnf`

This creates two files: `builtwithdark.com.key`, a new 2048-bit RSA
key (please don't lose this, it's important), and
`builtwithdark.com.csr`, the Certificate Signing Request. Then you can
copy-paste the text of the CSR into the Certificate Authority's
webpage.

Next you have to prove ownership over the domain. Paul and I tried to
do it with Cloudflare DNS but it was tricky because Cloudflare has
some weird restrictions about where you can CNAME to. We realized we
could use the "text file" challenge instead. That was easy to do by
logging into <http://builtwithdark.builtwithdark.com/admin/ui> and
adding a route responding at the path they asked for. It looked like
this:

```
/.well-known/pki-validation/3DDCB20FE60956090A312AA36B1A9E0E.txt HTTP GET
Http::responseWithHtml
"82EF68C568D5B84C00FE816EFED8F86A371CB21C79ED340AFC0C6144F06E55A8
comodoca.com"
200
```

They emailed ops@darklang.com, the email address I signed up with,
with a zip file containing a lot of `.crt` files. Unfortunately none
of these are the actual certificate you can use to serve files on
`builtwithdark.com`; you need to concatenate them all, for the full
chain of trust.

```
cat STAR_builtwithdark_com.crt  COMODORSADomainValidationSecureServerCA.crt COMODORSAAddTrustCA.crt AddTrustExternalCARoot.crt > builtwithdark.com.crt
```

Now you can upload this `crt` file and the `key` file to a Kubernetes
secret, so that it will be used by an HTTPs-enabled `Ingress`.

```
kubectl create secret tls bwd-tls --cert=builtwithdark.com.crt --key=builtwithdark.com.key
```

If it's already been created (which it has) you can use this snippet instead:

```
CERT="$(sudo base64 -w 0 builtwithdark.com.crt)"
KEY="$(sudo base64 -w 0 builtwithdark.com.key)"
kubectl get secret bwd-tls -o json \
    | jq '.data["tls.crt"] = "'"$CERT"'" | .data["tls.key"] = "'"$KEY"'"' \
    | kubectl replace -f -
```

Next I created a static IP in Google cloud with

```
gcloud compute addresses create bwd-tls-ip --global
```

You can see that IP (and the others) at
https://console.cloud.google.com/networking/addresses/list?project=balmy-ground-195100. It's
`35.227.208.117`.

Then you need to actually create a Kubernetes Ingress pointing to the
static IP we generated and the TLS secret we just created. For me,
that looked like

```
kubectl create -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  name: bwd-tls-ingress
  annotations:
        kubernetes.io/ingress.global-static-ip-name: "bwd-tls-ip"
spec:
  backend:
    serviceName: bwd-nodeport
    servicePort: 80
  tls:
    - secretName: bwd-tls
EOF
```

(This is now in `builtwithdark.yaml`, so you shouldn't have to do it again.)

Changes to the ingress seem to take a while to propagate. After this
is all done you can confirm that it works before switching the DNS
over in three ways: one, by using `--resolve` in `curl`:

```
curl -l --resolve lizzie.builtwithdark.com:443:35.227.208.117 https://builtwithdark.com
```

or by using `openssl s_client` (make sure it says `Verification: OK`)

```
openssl s_client -connect 35.227.208.117:443 -servername builtwithdark.com <<<""
```

or by editing your `/etc/hosts` to resolve `builtwithdark.com` to
`35.227.208.117` and using your browser:

```
35.227.208.117  builtwithdark.com
35.227.208.117  lizzie.builtwithdark.com
```

Once you've confirmed that it works consistently you can switch over
the DNS. In order to do this, you log into our DNS provider's (i.e., as of now,
Cloudflare's) web UI and switch the `A` records for
`builtwithdark.com` and `*.builtwithdark.com` to `35.227.208.117`.

Update, 2019-02-08
##################
`darkstaticassets.com` and `darksa.com` wildcard certs. Also in Comodo. CSR
process is as lizzie doc'd above, just replace the domain names appropriately.

The domains are in the positivessl.com dashboard. Note there are other sectigo
properties which makes this confusing.

(Unlike the above, I did use the DNS verification - it's easy with Name.com.)

Need to cat the files together, slightly diff than the filenames used
previously (source:
https://gist.github.com/gangsta/9d011dc0da614db27d5b22ed2044799f, section '2019
Comodo Certificates):

```
cat STAR_darksa_com.crt \
SectigoRSADomainValidationSecureServerCA.crt \
USERTrustRSAAddTrustCA.crt \
AddTrustExternalCARoot.crt \
> darksa.crt
```

Add to google:

```
gcloud compute ssl-certificates create darksa-com-wildcard \
    --certificate=./darksa.com.crt --private-key=darksa.com.key \
    --description="darksa.com and *.darksa.com, issued by Comodo CA"
```

(Not sure if there's a better way to renew than just creating a new
ssl-certificate record and updating the load balancer to use it ...)

Resulting files (.crt, .key) are stored in 1password, shared by IanS, Paul, and
Ellen.

Update, 2020-06-03
##################
When the AddTrust problem
(https://trello.com/c/pSHmm177/3167-follow-up-after-ssl-incident) happened, we
solved the problem by re-creating our cert chains using
https://whatsmychaincert.com ; it takes a domain, checks the cert, and gives you
a new one. You can also give it a crt file (not yet deployed)

While I do not believe it will be necessary to do that in the future, I do want
to document here the process for replacing a tls secret in kubernetes.

Assuming `<name>` is the name of the secret holding the cert:

1. Get the existing cert and keep it as a backup:
   `kubectl get secret <name> -o yaml > old-<name>.yaml`

2. Base64 encode the new cert:
   `cat <new cert> | base64 | xsel -ib` (`xsel` is Linux-specific, you can just
   copy to your clipboard by hand on OS X)

3. Copy `old-<name>.yaml` to `new-<name>.yaml` and manually replace the value
   `.data."tls.crt"` with the new data from step 2.

4. Confirm that your editing resulted in `.data."tls.crt"` being valid - this is
   a defense against copy-paste and whitespace errors:
   `yq -r '.data."tls.crt"' new-<name>.yaml | base64 -d` (we expect the output to
   be one or more certificates; you can pipe that to md5sum and compare it with the
   cert file it came from)

5. Deploy time! `kubectl apply -f new-<name>.yaml`. This will give you a
   warning: `Warning: kubectl apply should be used on resource created by either kubectl create --save-config or kubectl apply`, but this is ignorable. There's
   a PR to maybe improve the messaging
   (https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/91425), so that messaging may vary some.

6. The new cert isn't effective until the next deploy goes out, because the
   ingress pod needs to be restarted or replaced.

7. Once it's out, check that the new cert is being served -
   https://ssllabs.com/ssltest/ is probably the easiest way to do this, or
   `openssl s_client -connect <host>:443 | openssl x509 -noout -dates` will show
   you the notBefore and notAfter (expiration) dates.

Update, 2020-11-24
##################

Our certs are badly organized and are spread out, but here is the current status:

- \*.builtwithdark.com: positivessl.com. Cert installed in a k8s ingress/secret. TODO: move to cert-manager
- builtwithdark.com: cert exists, not installed for some reason. TODO: move to cert-manager
- \*.darklang.com: positivessl.com. Cert installed in a k8s ingress/secret. Note DNS is at cloudflare. TODO: move to cert manager. Move DNS to google.
- darksa.com: new one being bought at positivessl.
- darkstaticassets.com: new one being bought at positivessl.
- old certs have also been bought via cloudflare, store.sectigo.com and secure.sectigo.com (which are different!)
- customer certs use cert-manager (using k8s, see darkcustomdomain, other docs mentioning custom-domain)
- some customer certs use google managed certs, we've stopped adding new ones but the old ones are still there
