# Dark

## Getting Started

### Requirements

To build and run the server you must have the following installed (and running):

- Homebrew for Mac (https://brew.sh/)
- Docker for Mac (https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/install/)
- The latest version of bash `brew install bash`
- fswatch `brew install fswatch`
- PIP `brew install pip`
- live reload `pip install livereload`
- Dnsmasq `brew install dnsmasq`

### First time setup

#### Docker
The app and its dependencies are all held within the container. While code is edited on your machine, the application is compiled and run inside of the container.

Ensure that docker:
- set to use 4 CPUs and 2GB of RAM
- more than that significantly increases build time

#### Dnsmasq

A local DNS server is needed (on OSX) to access the application via a `.localhost` TLD. The following is a quick start, adapted from [this guide]( https://passingcuriosity.com/2013/dnsmasq-dev-osx/).

Install dnsmasq:

```
brew install dnsmasq
```

Follow brew's post-install instructions:
```
brew info dnsmasq
```

Add the following to `(brew --prefix)/etc/dnsmasq.conf`
```
address=/localhost/127.0.0.1
```

Restart dnsmasq:
```
sudo brew services restart dnsmasq
```

Configure OSX to use dnsmasq:
```
sudo mkdir -p /etc/resolver
sudo tee /etc/resolver/localhost >/dev/null <<EOF
nameserver 127.0.0.1
EOF
```

Test it:
```
# Make sure you haven't broken your DNS.
ping -c 1 www.google.com
# Check that .localhost names work
dig testing.builtwithdark.localhost @127.0.0.1
```

#### Create an account for yourself

Accounts are currently created / managed in [./backend/libbackend/account.ml](./backend/libbackend/account.ml). See [./docs/add-user.md](./docs/add-user.md) for more thorough information.

Account data can be generated by running:
```
scripts/run-in-docker backend/_build/default/bin/add_user.exe --prompt-for-password
```

Open a PR adding your account data to `account.ml` in the `init` function. It will look someting like:
```
upsert_admin
    { username = "YOURNAME"
    ; password = "..."
    ; email = "developer@example.com"
    ; name = "Ada Lovelace"};
```

### Building and running

- Run `scripts/builder --compile --watch --test`
- Wait til the terminal says "Finished initial compile" - this means the build server is ready
- Open your browser to http://darklang.localhost:8000/a/YOURNAME/
- Edit code normally - on each save in your filesystem, the app will be rebuilt and the browser will reload as necessary

### If you're interviewing:

- run `scripts/builder --compile --test` and leave it for 30-60mins to compile the Docker image.
- If there's any issues, let us know when we start and we can fix it in the background.

### Just serve it, not constantly recompiling

- Run `scripts/builder --compile --serve`

## Deploy it to prod

We're running in kubernetes on GKE.

The production containers are deployed as part of the CI build on master.

### How to build production containers

Build the production container (assumes that the build has succeeded):

- `./scripts/gcp-build-containers`

### How to deploy manually.

You'll need `gcloud` installed:

- `curl -s https://dl.google.com/dl/cloudsdk/channels/rapid/downloads/google-cloud-sdk-192.0.0-darwin-x86_64.tar.gz | tar xz && ./google-cloud-sdk/install.sh`.

then authenticate with gcloud:

- `gcloud auth login`

(Note: you might need to restart your shell for gcloud to appear in your $PATH,
or run `exec $SHELL`)

You should restart your development container at this point, as it pulls in
your currently authenticated user at start time.

Push the production container to Google Cloud Registry:

- `./scripts/gcp-push-images-to-gcr`

Trigger the deploy:

- `./script/gke-deploy`

### How to rollback a deploy (or pause deploys):
Use:
- `kubectl rollout history <deployment>`
- `kubectl rollout undo <deployment> --to-revision=N`
- `kubectl rollout pause <deployment>` (keeps CI from deploying while you work on a fix)
- `kubectl rollout resume <deployment>` (to resume after pausing)

See `docs/kubectl-rollout.md` for details.

### Troubleshooting GCP/GKE:

If gcloud auth is hanging, you can pass `--no-launch-browser` to `gcloud auth login` to have a CLI based workflow.

If you have authentication problems (eg. `denied: Unable to access the
repository, please check that you have permission to access it.` from a GCR
push), and you've confirmed that you've logged into gcloud and restarted your
container, then check that you've accepted the invite to the Google Developer
Project in your email. If you have and it's still not working, or you don't
have an invitation, then ping Paul or Ian.


### Troubleshooting container issues:

If don't have time to debug docker issues, try:

- `NEVER_REBUILD_DOCKER=1 scripts/builder ...`

## Testing

To run unit tests:

- `scripts/builder --compile --test`

Integration tests (run on your machine):

- `./integration-tests/run.sh`

There are good debugging options for integration testing. See integration-tests/README.

## Accessing the container

- `./scripts/run-in-docker bash`

## Accessing the local db

- `./scripts/run-in-docker psql -d devdb`

## Pull the prod db locally

- `./scripts/download-gcp-db`

This pulls all the data from gcp and puts it in a db named "prodclone".

Access it:

- `./scripts/builder --compile --watch [etc] --prodclone`

You can reset the clone to a pristine production clone (at the time of
download) with:

- `./scripts/reset-prodclone`

And access it directly with:

- `./scripts/run-in-docker psql -d prodclone`

You can also access the real DB in production:

- `./scripts/gcp-prod`

## Config files

Config files are in config/. Simple rule: anything that runs inside the
container must use a DARK_CONFIG value set in config/, and cannot use
any other env var.

## Setting up your editor

Ideally, you'd be able to use merlin inside the container.
We have this kinda working, but not fully. You can use ocamlmerlin in
the container, but it needs some vim/emacs scripts locally, which
require the whole toolchain to get installed unless you want to hack it.

- Install merlin:
  - `brew install opam`
  - `opam init`
    - copy snippet to your bashrc/shell config
  - `opam install merlin`
  - `opam install ocp-indent`

You will also want to support ocamlformat. For emacs, see [the
readme](https://github.com/ocaml-ppx/ocamlformat#emacs-setup). For vim:
- install [ALE](https://github.com/w0rp/ale)
- Add to your `.vimrc` (with an appropriate path-to-dark replacement):
```
set rtp+=~/[path to dark]/dark/scripts/ocamlformat
let g:ale_fixers = {'ocaml':['ocamlformat']}
```

### Pre-commit hook

You probably also want to install a pre-commit hook that runs ocamlformat for
you.
`cp scripts/pre-commit-hook.sh .git/hooks/pre-commit && chmod +x .git/hooks/pre-commit`


## (Not) Rebuilding the dev container

If you pull a commit with a Dockerfile update, and then restart your
`scripts/builder` script -- it will rebuild as much of the container as possible.

If you don't want to rebuild the container, use `NEVER_REBUILD_DOCKER=1 scripts/builder ...`
to make the the build script use the last built one.

In another shell you can now kick off a `scripts/builder --compile` to rebuild the container
in parallel with your currently working one.

You can use `export CURRENTLY_REBUILDING_DOCKER=1` to make your run-in-docker invocations, including say ocamlmerlin, use the old+running container as opposed to attempting to use the container
that has an in progress build.

## Preserving battery life

The're a poll during building that is a great drain on battery life. To
reduce the frequency of the poll, run script/builder using
POLL_FREQUENCY, which is the number of times per second to check.

- `POLL_FREQUENCY=0.1 scripts/builder --etc`

You can also disable the polling (ans consequently the building):

- `scripts/builder --compile --serve`

## Debugging the client

Click the "EnableDebugger" button on the bottom bar of the app.

## Running the client in production

Note: this only works for paul at the moment, but can be easily extended to more people by adding you to the ngrok account and making the code slightly more general.

Expose your local assets using ngrok:

- Join the company ngrok account by asking Paul
- install ngrok: `brew cask install ngrok` on OS X, or follow instructions at
  https://ngrok.com/download for Linux. (The snap installer is broken.)
- authorize your ngrok client: `ngrok authtoken YOURTOKEN` (found at
  https://dashboard.ngrok.com/auth)
- run your tunnel: `ngrok http 8000 -hostname=darklang-<username>.ngrok.io`
- You can simplify this to `ngrok start darklang` by adding to your
  `~/.ngrok2/ngrok.yml`:
```yaml
tunnels:
  darklang:
    proto: http
    addr: 8000
    subdomain: darklang-<username>
```

Use the queryparam "localhost-assets=<username>" to load static assets from darklang-<username>.ngrok.io instead of static.darklang.com.

You can check if it's going through via the ngrok console (which logs requests), and by tailing the server logs: `tail -f rundir/logs/server.log`.

## Editing other BS libraries

We sometimes have to edit other bs libraries in tandem with our codebase, which
is a little challenging. Here are the steps to make it work:

In client/package.json
```
-    "bucklescript-tea": "darklang/bucklescript-tea#master",
+    "bucklescript-tea": "file:../../bucklescript-tea",
```

In scripts/builder:
+  MOUNTS="$MOUNTS --mount type=bind,src=$PWD/../bucklescript-tea,dst=/home/dark/bucklescript-tea"



## Debugging ppx stuff

PPX is an ocaml preprocessor we use. The ppx libraries are all pretty
opaque. To read the preprocessed output, run jbuilder with the --verbose
flag to see the commands run. You'll see something that looks like this:

```
./.ppx/landmarks.ppx+lwt.ppx+ppx_bin_prot+ppx_deriving.std+ppx_deriving_yojson+ppx_fields_conv+ppx_sexp_conv+ppx_pipebang/ppx.exe --dump-ast --cookie 'library-name="dark"' -o lib/types.pp.ml --impl lib/types.ml
```

Run that without the --dump-ast and then look at the .pp.ml file to find
the preprocessed version.

## Important docs which we believe are up-to-date:

- [docs/add-user.md](docs/add-user.md)
- [docs/oplist-serialization.md](docs/oplist-serialization.md)
