# Bucklescript-tea and key and uniq

When we started using bucklescript-tea, we misunderstood how to use `key`, `uniq` (and to a certain extent `Vdom.noNode` and `Vdom.noProp`). A lot of code uses them incorrectly; here's how to use them correctly.

## The problems

Bucklescript-tea does vdom diffing: when it calls `view`, it generates a
virtual dom, then it diffs new virtual dom against the old one to determine
what changes it needs to make to the real DOM as a result.

# Uniq

A recognized problem in Virtual DOMs (Elm and React have this too, for
example), is knowing when a node has been changed. A common place for this
is in lists: if you previously generated a list of virtual nodes, and then
change their order, how do I know that what I'm seeing is the old list in a
new order?

React and Elm have a concept called a "key", which solves this. Bs-tea also
has a key, but it calls it "uniq" instead. Confusingly, it has a similar but
different concept which is called a "key", which is really confusing.

Uniq is a property on a node to identify it. If you have a list of elements
with uniqs "a", "b", and "c", and you reorder the list, the "uniq" string
will tell bs-tea that two vdom nodes represent the same thing. That will
allow bs-tea to continue its diffing in the right place.

If it can't tell, it will just blow away the existing DOM nodes and recreate
everything beneath it, which can be very slow.


# Vdom.noNode

A common way for a list to be blown away in our code is when toggling an
optional element in the list. For example, the documentation box only
sometimes shows. When it appears, bs-tea doesn't know that the list has only
changed slightly, and so it deletes the whole list and starts again. This
leads to performance problems.

Using uniq is one way to fix this, but probably not the right way. `uniq` is
really designed for lists that change order. For something like this, the
solution is to always include a node instead - that way the list stays in
the same order and you don't need to include `uniq` tokens everywhere.

`Vdom.noNode` is an empty node designed for exactly this purpose. When the
optional node appears or disappears, bs-tea will have a node to swap in/out,
without changing anything else. This means that not only does it not do
excess work to create the node, it also avoids rerendering.

# Vdom.noProp

This is exactly like Vdom.noNode, except for node properties.

# Key

`key` is a performance optimization that means that bs-tea will never recurse
into this node if the key is that same as in the previous vdom. If the key is
equal, it will not compare the vdom nodes, their properties, or children, and
will not make any changes to the DOM below this. It will simply move on.

Note that this is sligtly different to our custom caching. Our cache prevents
the Vdom nodes from being created during the `view`, while the `key` property
is used after the view is created when bs-tea is comparing the old and new
Vdom.

To use `key` well, you need to make sure that the key depends on every value
within it. If not, the nodes will not update when any values that are missed
are updated. We have found that the fastest way to turn values into a key
is to use `Js.Json.stringifyAny`.


# Key vs uniq

Most places where we use `key` in the codebase were probably better as `uniq`.

Given two nodes that bs-tea is comparing, if they have different `key`s or
different `uniq`s, bs-tea will know they are not the same in both cases. If
they have the same `uniq`, bs-tea will still recurse into it and compare
subnodes. If they have the same `key`, bs-tea will stop there.

## Closed over values

An important consideration in using keys is that sometimes the value of a
property is a function. Since OCaml cannot compare functions, you need to use
the `key` to tell bs-tea whether the nested value is the same or not. If you do
not include all data in the key, bs-tea will not change the DOM, and so the DOM will continue to include stale nodes (which are rendering the old Vdom).

If you use `uniq` instead, it will just recalculate the vdom each time. This
seems like it should be fine, but hides a subtle bug: it will always replace
the DOM nodes, which causes events triggered on those nodes to be dropped
(presumably becaue the event handler is briefly missing). 
