A lot of actions on the frontend go through a /rpc route. How does it
work? What code implements it? When and where do these updates happen,
and how do they get between the frontend and the backend?

First of all: what goes through /rpc?

Editing, creating, and deleting toplevels (i.e., the boxes you can
create on the canvas in the admin UI: HTTP handlers, functions, and
databases) all go through /rpc. These are represented as values in
`op` in server/libbackend/op.ml; there are a variety of different
operations that can be done this way. Toplevels are often referred to
by ids; these are represented with `tlid` in
server/libexecution/types.ml.

Here's how it works: input gets transformed into a Msg
and fed through updateMod update_ in `client/src/App.ml`. update_ updates the
Model and generates a Modification, which may be an RPC, which
contains one or more of these operations. These eventually get passed
to rpc in `RPC.ml`, which makes the HTTP request itself.

On the backend this is handled in `libbackend/server.ml`. /rpc
requests are passed around, through authenticate_then_handle, and
eventually passed into admin_rpc_handler.

In admin_rpc_handler the JSON body is parsed into a series of Ops,
which get passed to load_only in `libbackend/canvas.ml`. This function
is somewhat misleadingly-named -- it primarily runs the operations,
with apply_op in `libbackend/canvas.ml`, and also returns some data
that is useful but not very important.

(`canvas.ml` is interesting because it's part of libbackend, not
libexecution. This means that before anything is executed the data in
the canvas is transformed into another shape. This happens in
`server.ml` and further in `libexecution/execute.ml`.)

Finally, apply_op pattern-matches on the `op` and calls out to one of
several other functions that modify the canvas itself.
